README.md, before:

# Deep learning time series Forecasting
[![PRsWelcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)


List of state of the art papers focus on deep learning. Classic methods vs Deep Learning methods. Resources, code and experiments using deep learning for time series forecasting.

## [Table of Contents]()

* [Papers](#Papers)
* [Conferences](#Conferences)
* [Code](#Code)
* [Code Resources](#Code-Resources)
* [Datasets](#Datasets)


## Papers

### 2019

- [Dynamic Local Regret for Non-convex Online Forecasting](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.07927.pdf)`NeurIPS 2019`

  - Sergul Aydore, et al.
  - [[Code](https://github.com/Timbasa/Dynamic_Local_Regret_for_Non-convex_Online_Forecasting_NeurIPS2019)]

- [Bayesian Temporal Factorization for Multidimensional Time Series Prediction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.06366.pdf)

  - Xinyu Chen, and Lijun Sun
  - [[Code and data](https://github.com/xinychen/transdim)]

- [Probabilistic sequential matrix factorization](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.03906.pdf)

  - Ömer Deniz Akyildiz, et al.
  - Code not yet

- [Sequential VAE-LSTM for Anomaly Detection on Time Series](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.03818.pdf)

  - Run-Qing Chen, et al.
  - Code not yet

- [High-Dimensional Multivariate Forecasting with Low-Rank Gaussian Copula Processes](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.03002.pdf)`NeurIPS 2019`

  - David Salinas, et al.
  - Code not yet

- [Self-boosted Time-series Forecasting with Multi-task and Multi-view Learning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.08181.pdf) `AAAI 2020`

  - Long H. Nguyen, et al.
  - Code not yet

- [Shape and Time Distortion Loss for Training Deep Time Series Forecasting Models](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.09020.pdf)`NeurIPS2019`

  - Vincent Le Guen and Nicolas Thome.
  - [[Code](https://github.com/vincent-leguen/STDL)] 
  

- [SKTIME: A UNIFIED INTERFACE FOR MACHINE LEARNING WITH TIME SERIE](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.07872.pdf)

  - [[Code](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime)]
  

- [Recurrent Neural Networks for Time Series Forecasting: Current Status and Future Directions](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.00590.pdf)

  - [[Code](https://github.com/HansikaPH/time-series-forecasting)]

- [Evaluation of statistical and machine learning models for time series prediction: Identifying the state-of-the-art and the best conditions for the use of each model](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Antonio_Parmezan/publication/330742498_Evaluation_of_statistical_and_machine_learning_models_for_time_series_prediction_Identifying_the_state-of-the-art_and_the_best_conditions_for_the_use_of_each_model/links/5c558145a6fdccd6b5dc3e2e/Evaluation-of-statistical-and-machine-learning-models-for-time-series-prediction-Identifying-the-state-of-the-art-and-the-best-conditions-for-the-use-of-each-model.pdf)

   - Antonio Rafael Sabino Parmezan, Vinicius M. A. Souza and Gustavo E. A. P. A. Batista. USP
   

- [Explainable Deep Neural Networks for Multivariate Time Series Predictions](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2019/0932.pdf) `IJCAI 2019`

  - Roy Assaf and Anika Schumann. IBM Research, Zurich
  - Code not yet

  
- [Outlier Detection for Time Series with Recurrent Autoencoder Ensembles](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2019/0378.pdf) `IJCAI 2019`

  - [[Code](https://github.com/tungk/OED)]

- [Learning Interpretable Deep State Space Model for Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2019/0402.pdf) `IJCAI 2019`
 
  - Code not yet

- [Deep Factors for Forecasting](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.12417.pdf) `ICML 2019`

  - Code not yet

- [Probabilistic Forecasting with Spline Quantile Function RNNs](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v89/gasthaus19a/gasthaus19a.pdf)

  - Code not yet

- [Deep learning for time series classification: a review](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04356)
  
  - Code not yet
  
- [Multivariate LSTM-FCNs for Time Series Classification](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.04503)

  - Code not yet

- [Criteria for classifying forecasting methods](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169207019301529)

  - Code not yet

- [GluonTS: Probabilistic Time Series Models in Python](https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.05264)

   - [[Code](https://gluon-ts.mxnet.io)]
 
- [DeepAR: Probabilistic Forecasting with Autoregressive Recurrent Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.04110)

  - David Salinas, et al.
  - Code not yet

### 2018 

- [Deep State Space Models for Time Series Forecasting](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/8004-deep-state-space-models-for-time-series-forecasting.pdf) `NeurIPS2018`

  - Code not yet

- [Deep Factors with Gaussian Processes for Forecasting](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.00098)`Third workshop on Bayesian Deep Learning (NeurIPS 2018)`
  
  - [[Code](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/now-available-in-amazon-sagemaker-deepar-algorithm-for-more-accurate-time-series-forecasting/)]
  
### 2017

- [DIFFUSION CONVOLUTIONAL RECURRENT NEURAL NETWORK: DATA-DRIVEN TRAFFIC FORECASTING](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.01926.pdf)`ICLR 2019`

  - Yaguang Li, et al.
  - [[Code](https://github.com/liyaguang/DCRNN)]


### 2016

- [Temporal Regularized Matrix Factorization for High-dimensional Time Series Prediction](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/6160-temporal-regularized-matrix-factorization-for-high-dimensional-time-series-prediction)`NIPS 2016`
 
  - [[Code](https://github.com/rofuyu/exp-trmf-nips16)]
  
### Comparative: Classical methods vs Deep Learning methods

- [Forecasting economic and financial time series: ARIMA VS. LSTM](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.06386.pdf)

- [A comparative study between LSTM and ARIMA for sales forecasting in retail](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/e58c/7343ea25d05f6d859d66d6bb7fb91ecf9c2f.pdf)

- [ARIMA/SARIMA vs LSTM with Ensemble learning Insights for Time Series Data](https://towardsdatascience.com/arima-sarima-vs-lstm-with-ensemble-learning-insights-for-time-series-data-509a5d87f20a)


## Conferences

- Machine learning
   * [NeurIPS](https://nips.cc/) 
   * [ICML](https://icml.cc/) 
   * [ICLR](https://iclr.cc/)

- Artificial intelligence
   * [AAAI](https://www.aaai.org/)
   * [AISTATS](https://www.aistats.org/)
   * [ICANN](https://e-nns.org/icann2019/)   
   * [IJCAI](https://www.ijcai.org/)
   * [UAI](http://www.auai.org/)

## Code

## Theory-Resource

- [Backpropagation for LSTM](https://towardsdatascience.com/back-to-basics-deriving-back-propagation-on-simple-rnn-lstm-feat-aidan-gomez-c7f286ba973d)

- [Stock Market Prediction by Recurrent Neural Network on LSTM Model](https://blog.usejournal.com/stock-market-prediction-by-recurrent-neural-network-on-lstm-model-56de700bff68)

- [Decoupling Hierarchical Recurrent Neural Networks With Locally Computable Losses](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.05245.pdf)

- [Time Series Analysis with Deep Learning : Simplified](https://towardsdatascience.com/time-series-analysis-with-deep-learning-simplified-5c444315d773)

## Code-Resource

- [Non-Gaussian forecasting using fable - R](https://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/fable2/)

- [SKTIME](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime)

- [Papers with code - Multivariate time series forecasting](https://paperswithcode.com/task/multivariate-time-series-forecasting)

- [DeepAR by Amazon](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/deepar.html)

- [DFGP by Amazon](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/now-available-in-amazon-sagemaker-deepar-algorithm-for-more-accurate-time-series-forecasting/)

- [Electricity and Traffic datasets from UCI repository](https://github.com/rofuyu/exp-trmf-nips16/tree/master/python)

- https://www.kaggle.com/c/demand-forecasting-kernels-only

- https://www.kaggle.com/c/favorita-grocery-sales-forecasting

- https://www.kaggle.com/c/grupo-bimbo-inventory-demand

- https://www.kaggle.com/c/recruit-restaurant-visitor-forecasting

- [Predicting/hypothesizing the findings of the M4 Competition (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169207019301098)

## Datasets

- [Kaggle-Web Traffic Time Series Forecasting](https://www.kaggle.com/c/web-traffic-time-series-forecasting)

- [Electricity from UCI](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/ElectricityLoadDiagrams20112014)

- [Air quality from UCI](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Air+Quality)

- [Seattle freeway traffic speed](https://github.com/zhiyongc/Seattle-Loop-Data)

Commit message:

Add YMN need order paper

README.md, after:

# Deep learning time series Forecasting
[![PRsWelcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)


List of state of the art papers focus on deep learning. Classic methods vs Deep Learning methods. Resources, code and experiments using deep learning for time series forecasting.

## [Table of Contents]()

* [Papers](#Papers)
* [Conferences](#Conferences)
* [Code](#Code)
* [Code Resources](#Code-Resources)
* [Datasets](#Datasets)


## Papers

### 2019

- [You May Not Need Order in Time Series Forecasting](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.09620.pdf)

 - Yunkai Zhang, et al.
 - Code not yet

- [Dynamic Local Regret for Non-convex Online Forecasting](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.07927.pdf)`NeurIPS 2019`

  - Sergul Aydore, et al.
  - [[Code](https://github.com/Timbasa/Dynamic_Local_Regret_for_Non-convex_Online_Forecasting_NeurIPS2019)]

- [Bayesian Temporal Factorization for Multidimensional Time Series Prediction](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.06366.pdf)

  - Xinyu Chen, and Lijun Sun
  - [[Code and data](https://github.com/xinychen/transdim)]

- [Probabilistic sequential matrix factorization](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.03906.pdf)

  - Ömer Deniz Akyildiz, et al.
  - Code not yet

- [Sequential VAE-LSTM for Anomaly Detection on Time Series](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.03818.pdf)

  - Run-Qing Chen, et al.
  - Code not yet

- [High-Dimensional Multivariate Forecasting with Low-Rank Gaussian Copula Processes](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.03002.pdf)`NeurIPS 2019`

  - David Salinas, et al.
  - Code not yet

- [Self-boosted Time-series Forecasting with Multi-task and Multi-view Learning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.08181.pdf) `AAAI 2020`

  - Long H. Nguyen, et al.
  - Code not yet

- [Shape and Time Distortion Loss for Training Deep Time Series Forecasting Models](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.09020.pdf)`NeurIPS2019`

  - Vincent Le Guen and Nicolas Thome.
  - [[Code](https://github.com/vincent-leguen/STDL)] 
  

- [SKTIME: A UNIFIED INTERFACE FOR MACHINE LEARNING WITH TIME SERIE](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.07872.pdf)

  - [[Code](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime)]
  

- [Recurrent Neural Networks for Time Series Forecasting: Current Status and Future Directions](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.00590.pdf)

  - [[Code](https://github.com/HansikaPH/time-series-forecasting)]

- [Evaluation of statistical and machine learning models for time series prediction: Identifying the state-of-the-art and the best conditions for the use of each model](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Antonio_Parmezan/publication/330742498_Evaluation_of_statistical_and_machine_learning_models_for_time_series_prediction_Identifying_the_state-of-the-art_and_the_best_conditions_for_the_use_of_each_model/links/5c558145a6fdccd6b5dc3e2e/Evaluation-of-statistical-and-machine-learning-models-for-time-series-prediction-Identifying-the-state-of-the-art-and-the-best-conditions-for-the-use-of-each-model.pdf)

   - Antonio Rafael Sabino Parmezan, Vinicius M. A. Souza and Gustavo E. A. P. A. Batista. USP
   

- [Explainable Deep Neural Networks for Multivariate Time Series Predictions](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2019/0932.pdf) `IJCAI 2019`

  - Roy Assaf and Anika Schumann. IBM Research, Zurich
  - Code not yet

  
- [Outlier Detection for Time Series with Recurrent Autoencoder Ensembles](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2019/0378.pdf) `IJCAI 2019`

  - [[Code](https://github.com/tungk/OED)]

- [Learning Interpretable Deep State Space Model for Probabilistic Time Series Forecasting](https://www.ijcai.org/proceedings/2019/0402.pdf) `IJCAI 2019`
 
  - Code not yet

- [Deep Factors for Forecasting](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.12417.pdf) `ICML 2019`

  - Code not yet

- [Probabilistic Forecasting with Spline Quantile Function RNNs](http://proceedings.mlr.press/v89/gasthaus19a/gasthaus19a.pdf)

  - Code not yet

- [Deep learning for time series classification: a review](https://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04356)
  
  - Code not yet
  
- [Multivariate LSTM-FCNs for Time Series Classification](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.04503)

  - Code not yet

- [Criteria for classifying forecasting methods](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169207019301529)

  - Code not yet

- [GluonTS: Probabilistic Time Series Models in Python](https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.05264)

   - [[Code](https://gluon-ts.mxnet.io)]
 
- [DeepAR: Probabilistic Forecasting with Autoregressive Recurrent Networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/1704.04110)

  - David Salinas, et al.
  - Code not yet

### 2018 

- [Deep State Space Models for Time Series Forecasting](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/8004-deep-state-space-models-for-time-series-forecasting.pdf) `NeurIPS2018`

  - Code not yet

- [Deep Factors with Gaussian Processes for Forecasting](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.00098)`Third workshop on Bayesian Deep Learning (NeurIPS 2018)`
  
  - [[Code](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/now-available-in-amazon-sagemaker-deepar-algorithm-for-more-accurate-time-series-forecasting/)]
  
### 2017

- [DIFFUSION CONVOLUTIONAL RECURRENT NEURAL NETWORK: DATA-DRIVEN TRAFFIC FORECASTING](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.01926.pdf)`ICLR 2019`

  - Yaguang Li, et al.
  - [[Code](https://github.com/liyaguang/DCRNN)]


### 2016

- [Temporal Regularized Matrix Factorization for High-dimensional Time Series Prediction](https://papers.nips.cc/paper/6160-temporal-regularized-matrix-factorization-for-high-dimensional-time-series-prediction)`NIPS 2016`
 
  - [[Code](https://github.com/rofuyu/exp-trmf-nips16)]
  
### Comparative: Classical methods vs Deep Learning methods

- [Forecasting economic and financial time series: ARIMA VS. LSTM](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.06386.pdf)

- [A comparative study between LSTM and ARIMA for sales forecasting in retail](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/e58c/7343ea25d05f6d859d66d6bb7fb91ecf9c2f.pdf)

- [ARIMA/SARIMA vs LSTM with Ensemble learning Insights for Time Series Data](https://towardsdatascience.com/arima-sarima-vs-lstm-with-ensemble-learning-insights-for-time-series-data-509a5d87f20a)


## Conferences

- Machine learning
   * [NeurIPS](https://nips.cc/) 
   * [ICML](https://icml.cc/) 
   * [ICLR](https://iclr.cc/)

- Artificial intelligence
   * [AAAI](https://www.aaai.org/)
   * [AISTATS](https://www.aistats.org/)
   * [ICANN](https://e-nns.org/icann2019/)   
   * [IJCAI](https://www.ijcai.org/)
   * [UAI](http://www.auai.org/)

## Code

## Theory-Resource

- [Backpropagation for LSTM](https://towardsdatascience.com/back-to-basics-deriving-back-propagation-on-simple-rnn-lstm-feat-aidan-gomez-c7f286ba973d)

- [Stock Market Prediction by Recurrent Neural Network on LSTM Model](https://blog.usejournal.com/stock-market-prediction-by-recurrent-neural-network-on-lstm-model-56de700bff68)

- [Decoupling Hierarchical Recurrent Neural Networks With Locally Computable Losses](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.05245.pdf)

- [Time Series Analysis with Deep Learning : Simplified](https://towardsdatascience.com/time-series-analysis-with-deep-learning-simplified-5c444315d773)

## Code-Resource

- [Non-Gaussian forecasting using fable - R](https://robjhyndman.com/hyndsight/fable2/)

- [SKTIME](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/sktime)

- [Papers with code - Multivariate time series forecasting](https://paperswithcode.com/task/multivariate-time-series-forecasting)

- [DeepAR by Amazon](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/deepar.html)

- [DFGP by Amazon](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/now-available-in-amazon-sagemaker-deepar-algorithm-for-more-accurate-time-series-forecasting/)

- [Electricity and Traffic datasets from UCI repository](https://github.com/rofuyu/exp-trmf-nips16/tree/master/python)

- https://www.kaggle.com/c/demand-forecasting-kernels-only

- https://www.kaggle.com/c/favorita-grocery-sales-forecasting

- https://www.kaggle.com/c/grupo-bimbo-inventory-demand

- https://www.kaggle.com/c/recruit-restaurant-visitor-forecasting

- [Predicting/hypothesizing the findings of the M4 Competition (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169207019301098)

## Datasets

- [Kaggle-Web Traffic Time Series Forecasting](https://www.kaggle.com/c/web-traffic-time-series-forecasting)

- [Electricity from UCI](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/ElectricityLoadDiagrams20112014)

- [Air quality from UCI](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Air+Quality)

- [Seattle freeway traffic speed](https://github.com/zhiyongc/Seattle-Loop-Data)
